we are living through the brief but
memorable era of the coronavirus this
video is recorded on April 3rd 2020 at a
time when the people of France have been
deprived of such basic civil liberties
as the right to walk in the park and the
peculiar truth is that for some people
it would be completely harmless to take
a walk in the park
people like myself for example who
already had the coronavirus and have
already completely recovered from it who
can neither transmit it to other people
nor they at risk of transmitting it
themselves so you have a complex
question here of civil liberties
constitutionality why these concepts
exist if we can't actually exercise
these civil rights the moment it becomes
a convenient for the government for us
to have them now very briefly a couple
of years ago I was in France with my
girlfriend and my small daughter and our
trip there was made much more difficult
but much more worrying a much more
harrowing by a labor strike amongst
railroad workers you can imagine how
tempting it was for the government given
that the government controls the police
and controls the military to just order
all the railroad workers back to work
you just force them to end the strike do
you have the right to go on strike or
not now obviously you're gonna mess up
the vacations of millions of tourists
you're gonna mess up the ability of
working people to go to work what why do
you have a constitution why do you have
civil rights why do these things exist
why do you have these freedoms in these
liberties at all times except precisely
when you need them why do people say you
have the freedom to make this decision
for yourself except when there are
actually consequences when there's risk
no this type of question it's quite a
bit more ethically surreal for someone
like myself because I'm vegan
because I live always with these ongoing
debates in which meat eaters begin and
end their train of thought with the
claim that this is just a personal
choice that they have the right they
have the freedom they have the civil
liberty to make this decision for
themselves and they do but of course
they can't be responsible for the
consequences what if we were to do the
calculations just whip out a blank sheet
of paper and try to calculate how many
lives will be saved this year by
depriving everyone in France of their
civil liberties and let's be specific
depriving them of the ability to take a
walk in the park all right how many
lives are saved by specifically the
restrictions on your ability to walk
outdoors there are many other
restrictions are making other
interventions that might save more lives
like closing down all the restaurants
it's transmitted the same way the common
cold is transmitted so buying food at a
restaurant is a much more high-risk
activity than taking a walk in the park
you didn't see the person who prepared
or handled your food they may have
coronavirus they may have it and they
may not know that they have it so you
can get sick by eating packaged food at
a takeout food from restaurant or
packaged food from a grocery store any
kind of prepared foods anything that's
been handled by human hands right um
what if we were to try to estimate how
many lives were sold what if we were to
try to estimate how many lives were
saved by taking away the civil liberty
from you that you could walk in the park
compared to compelling the whole
population to strictly adhere to a vegan
diet if saving lives justifies taking
away your civil liberties if saving
lives justifies snuffing out your
Constitution your democracy and
replacing it with dictatorship then the
case for veganism would justify the
worst tyranny and the worst dictatorship
in the history of the world a hundred
times over right veganism you're going
to be calculating saving lives not only
in terms of heart disease
heart attacks cancer right these kinds
of direct health effects on the body
through diet you're also gonna be saving
lives but reducing the number of people
who are getting parasites bacteria and
viruses from handling raw meat eating
raw meat as you know whether it's raw
beef raw chicken raw fish all these
things carry disease so you could pretty
quickly come up with calculations for
just the amount of human life span of
human misery that would be improved
saved alleviated through compulsory
veganism this is without even
calculating the unbelievable
consequences for animal misery right
suffering torture and death of animals
calculating air pollution water
pollution knock-on consequences for the
planet which are mind-blowing and
astronomical okay so if you want a
justification for dictatorship if you
want to justification for taking away
people's civil liberties we have two
really strange examples before eyes
right now one being the ongoing history
of hysteria over coronavirus and the
other being the specter of the vegan
totalitarianism I had a question come in
from member of the audience who was
asking me I mean you know this person is
well-intentioned let's face it it's it's
a stupid question
it's quote oh great this girl's way what
do you think is the most effective and
fastest strategy to create a vegan
society that includes the the abolition
of the whole of animal farming animal
slaughter animal agriculture the the
legal exclusion of all animal
exploitation and at the same time ends
racism and sexism okay ah at different
times in the history of the world
eccentric people become dictators and
tyrants still happens to this day and
often enough those people are still
nominally elected they still have some
claim on paper to being part of a
parliamentary system or a democracy okay
this is going to continue to happen in
the future and
if you just try to do a google search
right now and ask the question of Google
how many countries around the world are
dictatorships right now how many
countries are ruled by a dictator it's
actually quite difficult to answer very
quickly you get into questions of well
how do you define a dictatorship um but
it is inevitable now say looking ahead
of the next 300 years that somewhere
sooner or later there will be a dictator
whether it's in Africa or South America
or in Asia who happens to be vegan
probably somewhere sooner or later there
will be an experiment in the government
coercing people to be vegan and when we
think about this it puts it into a very
different less comedic perspective
suddenly we get into a really bleak
questions such as I've just been asking
about the corona virus what do civil
liberties mean what is the significance
of someone becoming vegan if they're
doing it just because they're forced to
by authoritarian regime is that still
the outcome you want or are you someone
who values democracy and the process of
public education so highly that you'd
rather have maybe a decades-long very
inefficient process of trying to
mobilize and motivate people to do the
right things for the right reason trying
to engage with people and motivate them
to be vegan for the right reason as
opposed to seeing what happens when you
have a tyrannical dictatorship and the
tyrant in charge happens to be vegan
very brief example this by the way one
of the things that is least remembered
about Adolf Hitler was that he was
opposed to cigarette smoke so his regime
it was especially interested in
preventing women from smoking cigarettes
preventing pregnant women from smoking
cigarettes he had his own bizarre pseudo
evolutionary social Darwinist reasons
for why he was so opposed to cigarette
smoking he didn't want this to lead to
the degeneration of the German people
use your imagination a bit here um you
can imagine you could imagine the
rhetoric I think in case and as soon as
West Germany was conquered
by the Americans they instead celebrated
their return libery Liberty by handing
out packs of cigarettes everyone right
so under the American model for one
thing the American government wanted to
actively promote the idea of Germans
becoming consumers buying tobacco
exported from America to Germany there
was a straight-up profit motive involved
but this was also a symbol of the type
of civil liberty that allegedly the
American style of government enshrined
that even if there was very clearly just
one correct answer to a question like
it's not the case that for some people
smoking cigarettes is the right decision
and for some people throwing decision
for absolutely everybody
it's a terrible decision to smoke
cigarettes the right decision for each
and every one of us individually is to
quit smoking or never smoke at all and
the right decision for our society as a
whole is to absolutely abolish smoking
but nevertheless we value this matter of
personal choice and personal
responsibilities so highly that we would
prefer to engage in a decades-long
slow-motion struggle of public education
and democratically try to motivate
people to make the right choice
including by the way pregnant mothers
right pregnant mothers still have the
civil right they have the civil liberty
to smoke during pregnancy they still
even have the right to drink alcohol
during pregnancy right we don't compel
them not to we don't use the powers of
the state we don't use the military and
the police to prevent it I mean think
about how high the stakes are there
think about how terrible the
consequences are for allowing a woman to
drink alcohol and smoke cigarettes
during pregnancy but we allow it
meanwhile if I were in France right now
I literally would not have the civil
right to take a walk in the park
that's been stripped away what does
their constitution mean what is their
whole tradition of so-called freedom and
democracy going back to the French
Revolution mean if I can't take a walk
in the park more than one kilometer from
my house I can't drive my car on the
highway talk about social distancing I
mean you just the act of driving inside
a car the idea that this is a risk and
again let's repeat the risk is not the
same for everyone this isn't like
smoking cigarettes this is like drinking
during pregnancy right for me personally
there may be no risk at all walking in
the park
I can't transmit the disease I don't
have the disease I already had it and
recover it I'm immune to the disease for
someone else who's an elderly person the
risk might be more or considerable so
that you could say that this isn't
something that in a simple way reflects
one answer for everyone it's convenient
for the state it's convenient for the
government to pretend that there's only
one answer one to enforce 1-iron rule on
everyone right but there's actually a
really good argument here with
coronavirus that morally the right thing
to do is to allow each individual to
make an informed choice for his or her
for itself to say hey look we're gonna
do a public education campaign and I
tell you what the right choice is but
then we're gonna let you decide the same
way we let you decide to smoke
cigarettes the same way we would like
you decide to eat meat we value you
making the right decision and if some
people make the wrong decision that's
gonna have negative consequences for
others right and yet we tolerate this on
a massive scale day after day after day
with tens of millions of cows being fed
bred raised in captivity and slaughtered
with disastrous consequences not only
for ecology not only for the suffering
and misery of the animals themselves but
also with a body count in human lives
okay so what is the meaning of freedom
why is it that you always have your
freedom except when you need it
what is the meaning of civil liberties
if you can't make these decisions for
yourself when there are some risks when
there are some actual consequences I
think the people of France if they're
not asleep I think they need to blow the
dust off their constitution and really
ask themselves some very hard questions
after coronavirus because whether they
value their civil liberties or not
whether they value their human rights or
not they just experience what it's like
to have all of them taken away and if
you'll do it over a disease that is
transmitted in the same way as the
common cold do you think the government
won't do it over striking railroad
workers or any other example you can
possibly think of all right I'm 41 years
old
I'm a lot less optimistic about human
nature than I was at 21 years old
and I thought of myself as having a
tremendously cynical nihilistic and
ashen perspective on human nature when I
was 21 but I had a lot more
disappointments coming to me okay
I'm currently reading the autobiography
of Napoleon's younger brother I'm
halfway through the book allegedly
Napoleon's younger brother supported his
career up to a certain point and then
broke away and rebelled against him when
it was clear that Napoleon was no longer
leading a democracy he was no longer the
first console in a somewhat democratic
electoral parliamentary system that
Napoleon was becoming an outright
dictator that Napoleon's younger brother
had more fealty to the idea of a
constitutional republic or democracy or
if you want to put it then he had to his
own brother that this crossed the line
that he wouldn't support Napoleon as
Napoleon became an emperor okay
allegedly I'm reading the book because I
want us I want to fight if this is
really true I don't know maybe this is a
mythology other people made up but the
younger brother maybe that's not really
what happened we'll see okay I've got to
ask myself at age 41 how deep is my
commitment to democracy when the vast
majority of people are wrong when it's a
simple matter and we know I mean
coronavirus I've just said is not that
simple
you could write really complex
legislation and say okay people already
had the disease recovered or in this
category people were elderly and infirm
or in this category maybe there are some
people who get to make this decision
you could you could write something much
more nuanced right but coronavirus is
not as simple as cigarette smoking
cigarette smoking is bad for everyone
it's not as simple as gambling gambling
is bad for everyone all right it's not
as simple as eating meat drinking dairy
production of leather etc etc right
there's some of these questions that are
so ethically simple that the
implications are horrifying and as I say
sooner or later whether it's in Sri
Lanka or Vietnam or some province of
India or in South America
sooner or later some dictator somewhere
is going to take the open question of
how to efficiently create a vegan
society and they're gonna they're gonna
try to do it with brutal efficiency okay
we all have to ask ourselves how much do
we value democracy when the majority of
people are wrong how much do we value
civil liberties the right of the
individual to make their own choices to
make their own decisions when we know
the vast majority of those people will
make a decision that's clearly wrong
when we know that individual is going to
make a choice that is not just going to
harm themselves it's going to harm
others it's gonna have terrible
consequences for that society as a whole